# Insights

- Tablet sessions were less than a third of the frequency of desktop sessions and less than a quarter of mobile sessions. Depending on the fraction that lead to conversions, it is possible that more should be invested into adverts that display on mobile versions of sites. It is less efficient to consider tablets, but catering for tablets may come as a side effect of catering for mobiles.
- Sessions stemming from organic searches were over twice as frequent as the second most frequent result, which shows the importance of SEO. 'Direct' was the second most frequent; we don't know where these visitors got the idea of visiting the site. Referral was close behind it; Google Analytics can tell us exactly where these referrals came from, and thereby which sources in which to invest.
- Total sessions per day rose dramatically around April 2017, the end of June 2017, February 2018 and April 2018. This doesn't seem to correlate with seasons, and it is not the same months each year, so it is not specific events or holidays either. There is a dramatic dip from 3rd July to 10th July; the numbers are a fraction of what they are usually, but since they're not zero, they don't seem to be a result of missing data. They could be the result of a technical issue.
- The conversion rate took the same fall in July, as did the total conversions, which suggests that not only did all three of these things fall individually, but the number of conversions plummeted enough that despite the number of sessions also plummeting, the number of conversions divided by the number of sessions overall fell a large amount.
- The conversion rate for mobile is roughly half that of desktop and tablet, but the average number of conversions is still about twice for mobile than it is for tablet due to more traffic. Total conversions, rather than conversion rate, may be the most important metric since conversions may be a source of profit. However, conversion rate may be more important if the process of chasing these conversions is expensive enough that with a low enough conversion rate it is cost-prohibitive.
- The conversion rate for each type of channel grouping is fairly similar, but slightly less for social and slightly more for display. The amount invested in each of these channel groupings could be tweaked. 'Other' sources have a considerable conversion rate, so it may be worth further breaking down and paying attention to the categories that comprise this miscellaneous section.
- The overall conversion rate for 2017 looks similar to that of 2018, but it would have to be observed over more years to determine a pattern.
